<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="bats">
    <title>Bats</title>
    
    <conbody>
        <p>
            Bats are a common symbol of Halloween, frequently associated with darkness,
            mystery, and the supernatural. Their nocturnal behavior and distinctive
            appearance have contributed to their long-standing presence in folklore
            and Halloween imagery.
        </p>
        
        <section>
            <title>Folklore and Cultural Associations</title>
            <p>
                In many cultures, bats have been linked to myths involving spirits,
                omens, or transformation. European folklore often associated bats with
                witches and haunted places, while later literary traditions connected
                bats to vampires and other supernatural creatures.
            </p>
            <p>
                These associations helped establish bats as symbols of the unseen and
                unfamiliar, making them a natural fit for Halloween traditions.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Symbolic Meaning</title>
            <p>
                Symbolically, bats often represent mystery, intuition, and the boundary
                between light and darkness. Their ability to navigate in low-light
                conditions has also led to associations with heightened perception and
                hidden knowledge.
            </p>
            <p>
                In Halloween contexts, bats commonly serve as visual shorthand for
                nighttime, fear, and the supernatural.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Modern Halloween Usage</title>
            <p>
                In modern celebrations, bats are frequently depicted in decorations,
                costumes, and graphic designs. They are often shown in silhouette form,
                flying against night skies, moons, or haunted buildings.
            </p>
            <p>
                Bat imagery is widely used in party décor, children’s crafts, and themed
                media to create a spooky or playful atmosphere.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <example>
            <title>Common Uses of Bats in Halloween Decorations</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Silhouette cutouts displayed on walls or windows</li>
                <li>Hanging decorations suggesting bats in flight</li>
                <li>Printed motifs on costumes, candy packaging, and signage</li>
            </ul>
        </example>
        
    </conbody>
</concept>
