<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="darkness-and-night">
    <title>Darkness and Night</title>
    
    <conbody>
        <p>
            Darkness and night are defining atmospheric themes of Halloween, shaping how fear,
            mystery, and uncertainty are experienced. Reduced visibility and the absence of
            daylight heighten awareness and alter perception, making ordinary environments
            feel unfamiliar or threatening.
        </p>
        
        <section>
            <title>Psychological Context</title>
            <p>
                Humans rely heavily on sight to interpret their surroundings, and darkness limits
                this sense, increasing vulnerability and anxiety. Nighttime conditions reduce
                certainty about what is present or approaching.
            </p>
            <p>
                Halloween draws on these instincts by emphasizing shadow, contrast, and limited
                illumination.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Symbolic Meaning</title>
            <p>
                Symbolically, darkness represents the unknown and the hidden. Night serves as a
                temporal boundary during which normal social rules and expectations are relaxed
                or suspended.
            </p>
            <p>
                In Halloween imagery, darkness is often portrayed as a space where supernatural
                events become possible.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Darkness in Modern Halloween Traditions</title>
            <p>
                Modern Halloween celebrations frequently rely on low lighting, nighttime events,
                and high-contrast visuals. These elements create atmosphere while reinforcing
                themes of mystery and anticipation.
            </p>
            <p>
                Darkness is rarely total; instead, it is punctuated by controlled light sources
                such as candles or lanterns, maintaining balance between fear and safety.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <example>
            <title>Halloween Elements That Reflect Darkness and Night</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Nighttime trick-or-treating</li>
                <li>Low-lit or shadow-filled decorations</li>
                <li>Silhouettes against dark backgrounds</li>
            </ul>
        </example>
        
    </conbody>
</concept>
