<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="decay-and-impermanence">
    <title>Decay and Impermanence</title>
    
    <conbody>
        <p>
            Decay and impermanence are atmospheric themes of Halloween that emphasize the
            breakdown of physical structures and the passage of time. These themes reflect
            the gradual deterioration that accompanies aging, abandonment, and death.
        </p>
        
        <section>
            <title>Psychological Context</title>
            <p>
                Signs of decay signal neglect, danger, or loss of control, triggering unease.
                Humans often associate deterioration with vulnerability and instability.
            </p>
            <p>
                Halloween imagery uses decay to suggest that time has disrupted normal order.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Symbolic Meaning</title>
            <p>
                Symbolically, decay represents impermanence and the inevitability of change.
                Crumbling structures, broken objects, and weathered surfaces serve as reminders
                that nothing remains intact indefinitely.
            </p>
            <p>
                In Halloween contexts, decay is often stylized to evoke atmosphere rather than
                realism.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Decay in Modern Halloween Traditions</title>
            <p>
                Modern decorations frequently depict aged or abandoned environments through
                cracked surfaces, artificial wear, and muted colors. These elements contribute
                to a sense of history and neglect.
            </p>
            <p>
                Decay is commonly paired with symbols such as graveyards, spiderwebs, and
                haunted houses to reinforce the passage of time.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <example>
            <title>Halloween Elements That Reflect Decay and Impermanence</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Weathered or broken decorative props</li>
                <li>Abandoned or ruined settings</li>
                <li>Spiderwebs and aged materials</li>
            </ul>
        </example>
        
    </conbody>
</concept>
