<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="full-moon">
    <title>Full Moon</title>
    
    <conbody>
        <p>
            The full moon is a common symbol of Halloween, often used to evoke nighttime,
            mystery, and transformation. Its bright presence in dark skies has made it a
            powerful visual element in folklore and seasonal imagery associated with the
            supernatural.
        </p>
        
        <section>
            <title>Folklore and Cultural Associations</title>
            <p>
                In many cultural traditions, the full moon has been associated with heightened
                supernatural activity, emotional intensity, and transformation. Folklore often
                links the full moon to changes in behavior, magical rituals, and the appearance
                of otherworldly beings.
            </p>
            <p>
                These beliefs contributed to the full moon’s role as a symbolic marker for
                events that occur outside ordinary experience.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Symbolic Meaning</title>
            <p>
                Symbolically, the full moon often represents transformation, liminality, and
                the passage of time. It marks a transitional state between light and darkness
                and is frequently used to suggest moments when normal rules are suspended.
            </p>
            <p>
                In Halloween contexts, the full moon serves as a backdrop that reinforces themes
                of mystery and supernatural possibility.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Modern Halloween Usage</title>
            <p>
                In modern Halloween imagery, the full moon is commonly depicted behind silhouettes
                of bats, haunted houses, or barren trees. Its circular shape and high contrast
                make it a visually striking element in decorations and graphic designs.
            </p>
            <p>
                Full moon imagery is widely used in seasonal decorations, printed materials,
                and digital media to establish a nighttime Halloween atmosphere.
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <example>
            <title>Common Uses of the Full Moon During Halloween</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Backdrop imagery in decorations and illustrations</li>
                <li>Visual framing for bats, witches, or haunted landscapes</li>
                <li>Atmospheric lighting themes in events and displays</li>
            </ul>
        </example>
        
    </conbody>
</concept>
