<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ghosts">
    <title>Ghosts</title>

    <conbody>
        <p id="p_cgr_yq1_n3c">Ghosts are a central symbol of Halloween, commonly representing spirits of the dead and
            the lingering presence of the past. Their association with haunted locations, unfinished
            business, and the supernatural has made them a recurring figure in folklore and popular
            culture.</p>

        <section id="section_dgr_yq1_n3c">
            <title>Folklore and Cultural Traditions</title>
            <p id="p_egr_yq1_n3c">Stories of ghosts appear in the traditions of many cultures, often describing spirits
                that remain in the human world due to unresolved emotions or obligations. These
                narratives frequently associate ghosts with specific places, such as homes,
                battlefields, or burial grounds.</p>
            <p id="p_fgr_yq1_n3c">Over time, such stories influenced seasonal observances connected to remembrance of
                the dead, helping establish ghosts as a symbolic presence during Halloween.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="section_ggr_yq1_n3c">
            <title>Symbolic Meaning</title>
            <p id="p_hgr_yq1_n3c">Symbolically, ghosts often represent memory, loss, and the boundary between life and
                death. They may also embody fear of the unknown or anxiety about what lies beyond
                the visible world.</p>
            <p id="p_igr_yq1_n3c">In Halloween contexts, ghost imagery can range from frightening to playful, allowing
                the symbol to be used for both suspense and humor.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="section_jgr_yq1_n3c">
            <title>Modern Halloween Usage</title>
            <p id="p_kgr_yq1_n3c">In modern Halloween celebrations, ghosts are depicted in a wide variety of forms,
                from realistic apparitions to simplified, cartoon-like figures. They are commonly
                used in decorations, costumes, and themed entertainment.</p>
            <p id="p_lgr_yq1_n3c">Ghost imagery is especially popular in children’s decorations due to its flexibility
                as a symbol that can be adapted to different levels of intensity.</p>
        </section>

        <example id="example_mgr_yq1_n3c">
            <title>Common Uses of Ghosts During Halloween</title>
            <ul id="ul_ngr_yq1_n3c">
                <li>Hanging decorations resembling floating spirits</li>
                <li>Costumes depicting friendly or frightening ghosts</li>
                <li>Haunted house themes and storytelling activities</li>
            </ul>
        </example>

    </conbody>
</concept>
