<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="pumpkins">
    <title>Pumpkins</title>

    <conbody>
        <p id="p_n2r_yq1_n3c">Pumpkins are one of the most recognizable symbols of Halloween, commonly associated with
            seasonal decoration, costume imagery, and the tradition of carving jack-o’-lanterns.
            Their connection to Halloween combines agricultural history, folklore, and modern
            popular culture.</p>

        <section id="section_o2r_yq1_n3c">
            <title>Historical Origins</title>
            <p id="p_p2r_yq1_n3c">Pumpkins are native to North America and have long been cultivated as a food source.
                Their association with Halloween can be traced to European folklore, particularly
                stories involving carved lanterns used to ward off evil spirits. When these
                traditions migrated to North America, pumpkins became a practical substitute for
                other root vegetables due to their size and availability.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="section_q2r_yq1_n3c">
            <title>Symbolic Meaning</title>
            <p id="p_r2r_yq1_n3c">As a symbol, pumpkins often represent the transition from harvest season into winter.
                In the context of Halloween, they are commonly associated with protection,
                transformation, and the boundary between the ordinary world and the supernatural. </p>
            <p id="p_s2r_yq1_n3c">The carved jack-o’-lantern, in particular, is believed to symbolize guidance and
                vigilance, using light to keep harmful forces at bay.</p>
        </section>

        <section id="section_t2r_yq1_n3c">
            <title>Modern Halloween Usage</title>
            <p id="p_u2r_yq1_n3c">Today, pumpkins are widely used as decorative elements during Halloween. They appear
                in carved displays, artificial decorations, printed media, and digital imagery.
                Pumpkin carving has also become a social and creative activity, often involving
                families or community events.</p>
        </section>

        <example id="example_v2r_yq1_n3c">
            <title>Common Uses of Pumpkins During Halloween</title>
            <ul id="ul_w2r_yq1_n3c">
                <li>Carved jack-o’-lanterns placed near entrances</li>
                <li>Pumpkin-themed indoor and outdoor decorations</li>
                <li>Costume accessories and visual motifs</li>
            </ul>
        </example>

    </conbody>
</concept>
